Before starting, make sure to download the RiTa library at https://rednoise.org/rita/download.php. Download the full version (rita-full.js). For a overview of the syntaxes I have used, look in the reference for the library https://rednoise.org/rita/reference/index.php.
    This sketch focus is on text analysis and capturing and how we might reveal feelings in doing so. The sketch takes inspiration from forensic linguistics and how the written says a lot about our feelings, personality and so on. A psychologist, James W. Pennebaker, have written a book about functions words, pronouns (such as I, you, they), articles (a, an, the), prepositions (to, of, for), auxiliary verbs (is, am, have), and how we can tell a lot peoples state of mind by analyzing them. My sketch analyzes a simpler thing – the number of nouns in a short poem written by the spectator. The sketch then outputs different statements and questions in relation to the number of nouns. The sketch gives the impression, that it knows your feelings by reading your poem. The questions and questions are however completely arbitrary and doesn’t tell anything about your state of mind. By doing so, I try the raise awareness of algorithms and the data they capture and how they perceive us in analyzing our personal input into the internet. These algorithms are imbued with a very specific perception of humans – influenced by the programmer and corporations’ ideology. The reduction of complex human emotions into simple statements and questions based on text analysis caricature how algorithms reduces human emotions into simple and understandable things.
